.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1990 - 1998   Lee McLoughlin
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
.\" that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear
.\" in supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" Permission to modify the software is granted, but not the right to
.\" distribute the modified code.  Modifications are to be distributed
.\" as patches to released version.
.\"
.\" This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.\" $Id: mm.man,v 2.9 1998/05/29 19:09:58 lmjm Exp lmjm $
.\" $Log: mm.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.9  1998/05/29 19:09:58  lmjm
.\" mostly gone in favour of html
.\"
.\" Revision 2.1  1993/06/28  15:21:58  lmjm
.\" Full 2.1 release
.\"
.\" Revision 1.1  1993/06/22  19:43:32  lmjm
.\" Initial revision
.\"
.TH MM 1L "21 April 1993"
.SH NAME
mm \- mirror master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mm
.B [flags] [package-files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mm
is the mirror master.  It runs multiple calls to
.B mirror
in parallel and handles locking and minimal retry times.
.LP
As with
.B mirror,
.B mm
is a package written in Perl.
.LP
.B mm
presumes that all the package details are stored in a directory called
packages.  All the packages for a given site must be in a file whose
name is the same as that of the site.  So in packages/sunsite.org.uk
will be all the package details for the host sunsite.org.uk.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-t
Ignore the minimal retry timers.
.TP
.B \-o site:package
Only mirror the given site:package.
.TP
.B \-debug
Enable debugging.  If this argument is given more than once the
debugging level will increase.  Currently the maximum useful level is
four.
.TP
.B \-s
Enable status debugging.  This will print out the status of any
subprocess as it is spawned or as it exits.
.TP -
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file is parsed as a series of statements.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a hash are ignored.
There are are two kinds of statements, controls and site:package details.
.LP
Control statements are of the form:
.PD 0
.IP
.IB keyword = value
.P
.PD
.LP
You can add whitespace around the equals.
.LP
Here is a list of the keywords and their values, any defaults are
given inside square brackets:
.de kV
.TP 15m
.I \\$1
\\$3
.if !'\\$2'' [\\$2]
..
.kV home '' "Directory that mm chdirs to before doing any work.
.kV max '6' "Maximum number of mirrors that can be running in parallel at any one time
.kV mirror '' "This is the way to call mirror.  Any occurence of \
$args, $package or $site is replace with the appropriate entry from \
the package. Any $pkg is replaced with a version of $package with all \
characters that cause problems in filenames converted to underscore. \
The default is: exec ./mirror \e$args -p'\e$package' packages/\e$site > logs/\e$site:\e$pkg 2>&1
.kV cmd '' "Run the given command. This can occur multiple times.
.kV cmdin '' "Run the given command and use its output as mm input. This can occur multiple times.
.kV skip '' "Skip the given site:package when it occurs.
.LP
In addition to control statements there are also package details.
Each package details statement is of the form:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
site:package min-restart-last-ok min-restart-last-notok mirror-args
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
The site and package fields are matched against those in the packages.
A mirror will only be run to this site:package if the last mirror run
was more than
.B min
hours out.
The 
.B min-restart-last-ok
limit will be used if the last call to mirror was successful.  If the
mirror call failed then
.B min-restart-last-notok
will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Here is a simple
.B mm
input file to manage mirroring two packages.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
home=/public/mirror

ftp.cl.cam.ac.uk:JIPS-nrs 20 20
hcrl.open.ac.uk:hcrl-psion 20 20
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.LP
More usually the auxilly program
.B pkgs_to_mmin
will be used to automatically convert the contents of the packages
directory into the site:package statements.
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
home=/public/mirror

cmdin=./pkgs_to_mmin packages/*
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lee McLoughlin <lmjm@icparc.ic.ac.uk>.
